Let's take a look at our network tab.
And by the way also like as we're
navigating between these we're actually
still using the skeleton work that
we did in the previous exercise.
So this is not,
this piece of like the skeleton UI that
actually has nothing to do with
the work we did with deferred.
Deferred will not, or the loader will
not differ on transitions between
the sibling routes like this, it only
happens on the initial load of that route.
That's important, little note, and so
we're going to keep our
existing work on pending UI.
Okay, so let's take a look at
the network tab when we load this, yeah.
So again the defer is only about
the initial load of the route, that's it.
And if you're transitioning from one
completely different route to this route,
then yes defer will apply.
If you're loading the page, defer will
apply, in other cases it does not, okay?
So we load the page, we have this document
requests and now the document request
is really long, and you're like no
my document request is long, but no,
the document request is just open,
and it's sending the data over time.
Unfortunately, I checked and
the view source actually,
here, let's see if we can do it this way.
View source will sit around, and
it doesn't show us the stuff that
is being streamed in our weights.
It buffers everything before it
actually shows us all the stuff.
But this is actually interesting
to look at what is happening
when it's all finished.
So if we look at the source of this thing,
and let's make sure I'm on here,
let's do a view source of that just
to make sure we're on the same one.
So, we have invoice 2000.
So if we look for 2000 in this document,
nope, that bad example.
Let's like get 10002.
10002, there we go.
Now where it shows up in the HTML or
in the DOM when we're all done, should
be like somewhere in the middle between
the body open body, and closing body.
Well, let's look for the closing body,
that's gonna be right here.
There's the close to HTML,
if we look for that 10,000,
that is after the closing HTML.
That streaming folks,
we sent everything, we sent everything
between the opening and closing HTML.
And then the server is still working,
and the browser's like, I'm just
gonna hang on to this request because you
told me you're sending me more stuff.
So I'm just gonna hang on.
And so, this is this piece is actually
react streaming this is not a remix
thing this is how react streaming works.
Is they just you leave that request
open or that that connection open and
then when React is ready to go,
yeah there we go.
When React is ready to go,
it sends the rest of the resolved UI and
data along to all along for the ride,
and that part is the remix part that.
Remix decides, okay, now that this is
ready here's the UI that I need to send in
it says here react here's the UI you
need to send and react sends it off.
If we dive in a little bit deeper here,
you'll see a div after the closing
HTML that has a hidden prop.
So UI doesn't see it, and
then we see the table.
That's the UI that was our result value.
This is what we render
when we're all done.
And this is gonna have all of the UI for
this.
There's our 10,002.
And then after that, we have a script tag.
And this script tag is responsible for
taking the placeholder that we had
before our loading state and swapping it
with this content that it was streamed in.
It's magic, it is so cool,
so cool how this works, so
it's got this idea of s0, and if we
look for s0, that's in the JavaScript.
It says hey let me find it find that b0,
whereas that up here,
and we're going to swap
that b0 with the rs0.
[LAUGH] Who comes up with this stuff,
so cool, just think that is so rad.
And so then in addition remix and
remix is responsible for
rendering those places where they're at,
but
React is the one that actually creates
that script tag that does all of that.
But remix also renders this script tag
to put all of the data that we just
streamed in into the React context
that remix is managing for us.
So when you call user loader data again,
it gets that result value and
that goes in through the awaited and
did everything.
So that's why in here we
see our invoice details and
boom there's our total amount and thank
you, JavaScript, for being such a jerk.
[LAUGH] Don't build finance
websites in JavaScript,
I guess or something I don't know.
[LAUGH] Yeah, or we should do what is,
what a big number, what is that called?
>> Big end again.
>> Yeah, big end.
Yeah.
[COUGH] Actually,
I think that's how it's stored in the
database, and I'm converting it to number,
so it's my bad.
[LAUGH] My goodness.
That's hilarious.
So, anyway, that is how all that works.
It just boggles my mind and on top of
this, it's a little bit easier, or
it's kind of interesting to see this
if we're looking at the data requests.
So when we're,
when we're doing a full page load,
this is all what's happening
with the document request.
But if we transition from one
completely separate route to this new
route that has a deferred, then we can see
the date of the request that happens and
that one must be that one.
And we preview and we have some info.
It would be easier actually, if I just
take, what the devil, will take this.
Copy that.
Paste it there, watch.
And that's streaming right there.
So it streamed in my loader
data that I was not deferring.
So there's my customer info,
I awaited that and
that's why it was here right away.
The customer details,
whoever I gave it a promise.
And so,
it sent me just this identifier for
the promise for
the client side remix dinner.
Okay, so this customer details,
I'm gonna make a promise for that, and
I'm going to resolve when the rest
of this gets streamed in.
In fact, even the content type, for the
response header, is a text remix deferred.
So, this is not application JSON anymore,
because we're streaming in, and
you'll notice I've got a plugins, or an
extension installed, that parses JSON for
me, and it thought that this
was supposed to be JSON.
It's not,
it just kind of resembles that JSON.
This actually sort of resembles server
sent events, the way that that works.
So, we have this new line,
and then data colon, and
then, the data for the customer details.
So, those two things are the same.
So you can defer a bunch of things,
you'll get deferred promise, and
I should probably mention that I'm showing
you some of the implementation details.
These are absolutely possible to change.
You should not rely on
the implementation details, but
I think it helps you understand how to
use this if you understand how it works.
So that's why I'm explaining all this.
So Remix will grab this piece, parse it as
JSON, and hand to those customer details,
resolve the promise that our client
is waiting on with this value.
And it's freaking magic,
because it means now,
watch this, I can prefetch this.
I hover over that, and
I'm It's being deferred, and boom.
Tried to do that with your
client side data fetching.
[SOUND] Yeah, good luck.
You have to wire that manually.
It's possible, totally possible, but
you have to wire it all up manually.
I'm controlling all of this
with just this defer thing.
And watch this,
what if I decide you know what?
Sometimes or like, maybe it's actually
better to make the user wait,
I don't know.
How about we do an AB bucket test?
So I've got this little will
make a little function is or
yeah, should defer, okay?
And then, we'll use some
environment variable or whatever,
you all do the feature flags and
bucket testing like AB testing and stuff?
So we'll just say, for
the purposes of what we're doing,
we're in the bucket that says,
yeah, you should defer that, or
let's say we're in the bucket that
says no, you should not defer this.
So false.
[LAUGH] So now,
I say here should defer.
If we should defer, then we'll defer that.
Otherwise, we'll await that
customer details promise.
I just did AB testing of whether I
should fetch it at like show that.
So what we're doing here we've
got a lever content layout shift,
time to first byte, which do I care about,
do I not want any content layout shifts.
No content layout shift, and I'm not going
to defer, I'm gonna wait for this thing.
So I don't get content layout shift.
Do I want fast time to first byte?
Okay, that's fine.
I will defer, and I'll pay with
content layout shift, and that's it.
And you can split this
up however you want.
You're like, well, one part of the data
is slow, the rest of it's fast.
That's exactly what I did here.
I said the customer info that's fast,
customer details, that's slow.
So I'm gonna defer that but not,
and it works like it totally does.
So we're in the bucket that says no, we're
not we're gonna wait for everything and so
yeah, it's gonna take a while but there's
no content layout shift, that's it.
Literally, we basically
took the await keyword And
we moved it into our component.
That's all the code changes necessary for
this.
That's pretty rad.
What if you happen to know that one
customer getting their invoice details is
really fast.
So let's say Santa Monica is superfast,
so we can say if customer
info.info.email is Santa Monica.
Here will say should or
defer it, should defer,
or the customer info is not our N.
Let's say N, and it's not sent to Monaco,
so, if we want to defer,.
If we should defer because
we're in a bucket, or
we also know that it's not Santa Monica.
So like we can decide based on other data
whether or not we should defer this.
I happen to know that that customer's
data is like really fast, so
I won't even bother no flash a loading
state let's just wait no content layout
shift at runtime people.
I can't.
I've never seen anything quite like this,
only possible because of what
React has done with streaming and
what Remix is doing with that feature.
It took you like all of five to 10 minutes
to never have heard of this before and
implement it.
What?
[LAUGH] Yeah.
This is one of those things like,
yeah, I could do that in all the way I
used to do things, I could work
around those problems whatever.
This is something no, you could not
do this before this is an enabling
technology that you could not do before
that's I get excited about that stuff.
Okay, [SOUND] so that is it.
I think that's everything I have to share.
Any questions?
Yeah.
>> Can you nest suspense and awaits?
>> Yes, you can.
And the cool thing is that, so we talked
about React server components and
the work that the React team is doing and
suspense in general, and
it's really exciting stuff.
The challenge with that is that all
they do our handle the fallback when
something is wait, we're waiting for
something to happen.
In that world, you can very
easily end up with stairsteps,
if you're triggering the fetch
when the component is rendered.
So you have one suspense boundary, and
then here's the component that like,
okay, we're gonna trigger and throw.
And now, we're waiting for
that one, and then that's done.
And now we're gonna go down to this one.
That's gonna trigger another one.
So now, it's just a stair step waterfall,
not a good user experience.
It's really bad.
So what you have to do is you have to know
all of the things that are gonna suspend,
and you trigger them all at the same
time that's really difficult to do,
unless you're using remix.
Because remix does it for
you because it's all in your loader,
it's like here's all the data
that this routing needs.
So, yes, you totally can.
I can't think of any use case on the top
of my head where I'd want to do but no.
Yeah, I could see situations like,
let's say that, you've got
a couple of elements in here where you
want to defer a couple of them and
so you could render the parents
with the suspense boundary here.
I'd probably more likely see
these as sibling things.
But then there's also the suspense
list component that can, like,
help you make sure that they
load in the right order,
even if they load out of order,
that they're rendered in the right order.
But yeah, so you can have a couple of
these things that are deferred and
have them all nested.
And what's cool about that is they're
all kicked off ahead of time.
So you're not gonna be
running into a stairstep,
they're all running concurrently.
So does that answer your question?
Okay, cool.
Any other questions?
>> What happens if you have an effect that
changes something in the deferred context?
>> What happens if you have an effect
that changes the different context.
I'm not sure I understand, I'm guessing
by effects they mean a use effect,
use effect callback.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
So when would it use effects change,
the different context?
You don't really have control over that.
So I can't think of a reason
why you'd want to, so
I'm not sure I understand the question.
>> If you can provide additional context,
I don't think that should be possible.
>> I do feel like I have to
mention that in chat there's a lot
of like I'm in awe like crap, wow.
>> That's, Brad, great use case, etc.
>> Yeah.
That's great.
I am not excited by myself, cool.